.TH CLIP_USB_CLT 8 "DECEMBER 2008" Linux "CLIP Utilities"
.SH NAME
clip-usb-client \- Clip usb client.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usbclt_<level>
.I action
.PP
.B usbmenu
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B usbclt 
is launched in a given CLIP jail and communicates with the 
.I usbadmin
daemon listening in that jail. It sends commands to that daemon
based on the 
.I action
parameter, to manage removable mass-storage tokens (USB, CD-ROM), for
the specified jail. The affected jail is determined by the name under which
the executable is called. A symlink to
.B usbclt
named 
.B
usbclt_<level>
will perform operations for the <level> jail. (Note however that all
CLIP jails are treated as a single <level> : 'clip').
.PP
.B usbmenu
is a GTK-based graphical interface to 
.I usbclt
at the CLIP security level (ADMIN, AUDIT and USER jails).
.PP
.SH MANDATORY PARAMETERS
.I action
can have the following values :
.PP
\-
.BR umount
unmounts the currently mounted usb token.
.PP
\-
.BR init
initializes the last non-mounted usb token as a signed and encrypted
token for the current user and the specified jail.
.PP
\-
.BR init-cleartext
initializes the last non-mounted usb token as a signed but non encrypted
token for the current user and the specified jail.
.PP
\-
.BR generate
generates new crypto keys to sign and encrypt USB tokens for the current user
and specified jail.
.PP
\-
.BR export
exports the crypto keys for the current user and specified jail to 
the last non-mounted USB token.
.PP
\-
.BR cdmount
mounts the CDROM into the specified jail.
.PP
\-
.BR cdumount
unmounts the CDROM mounted in the specified jail.
.PP
\-
.BR ucdmount
mounts the CDROM into the UPDATE jail (only works when the caller is at CLIP level,
and a member of the update management group defined by usbadmin_clip's command line).
.PP
\-
.BR ucdumount
unmounts the CDROM mounted in the UPDATE jail (only works when the caller is at CLIP level,
and a member of the update management group defined by usbadmin_clip's command line).
.PP

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B usbclt
returns -1 if an error occured, 0 otherwise.
.SH AUTHORS
EADS Defence And Security Systems
.PP
SGDN/DCSSI ( Vincent Strubel - 
.I clipos@ssi.gouv.fr
)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clip_usb_keys (8)
